Israel is at war with Hamas a terror
organization in Gaza that is also a
proxy of Iran in fact the Islamic
Republic of Iran is considered the
Archen Enemy of the State of Israel
tyron's stated goal is the destruction
of Israel but it hasn't always been this
way we're joining me here at the big
table now is GTO Steinberg he's a
familiar face here at DW he's a Middle
East analyst and a senior fellow with
the German Institute for international
and security Affairs GTO it's good to
see you again I want to talk with you
about this ring of fire that Iran wants
to create around Israel we know that
Hezbollah and in Lebanon and Hamas in
Gaza they are part of that ring of fire
and I'm wondering to what extent does
Tyran control both of these
groups tan most likely controls hisbah
simply because the Iranian revolutionary
guards founded hisbah in South Lebanon
in
1982 and they have never been any
reports about any conflicts between tan
and Southern Beirut where hisbah has its
headquarters and I think and most
Lebanese think that hisbah receives all
its strategic orders from tan and that's
totally different with regard to Hamas
Hamas is uh is a Sunni organization in
contrast to the Islamic Republic in
contrast to hisbah it's not religiously
and not ideologically aligned it only
shares an
anti-imperialism with hisbah and Iran
and it hates Israel but uh in spite of
all the support it has received by by
Iran andah it's not a very reliable
partner Israel's goal we know remains to
destroy hamas's military
capabilities will Iran let that happen
we know that the Ayatollah has already
accused is Israel of Crossing several
red lines I mean is there another red
line or are there more red lines to
cross yeah well the destruction of Hamas
might be a red line because uh Iran has
invested heavily in in what it calls the
exis of resistance and it includes
hisbah it includes the hthi rebels in in
Yemen Shia militia in Iraq other
militias in uh in in Syria and if you
try to destroy a part of this axis of
resistance and especially an important
one like Hamas and it's important simply
because it's it's at the heart it is
situated at the heart of the conflict
with Israel it might force hisbah and
Iran to react militarily and I think
that's uh that's quite a plausible
scenario we've seen rocket Fire coming
from Lebanon we've also seen attempts by
houis in Yemen to um attack Israel how
much of an existential threat are these
groups to the state of Israel right now
I don't think that they are an
existential threat but if all these
groups attack uh and if there is a war
in the West Bank as well with the
Palestinian terrorist groups uh it might
might become a large threat although I
only take hisb seriously simply because
the group is b battle hardened it has
fought in in Syria for years and years
on the side of the Assad regime it has
more than
150,000 missiles drones Rockets cruise
missiles
150,000 so they can do a lot of harm
they are not an existential threat to
Israel but combined Hamas hisbah and all
the other groups uh that would be quite
an uphill battle for the Israeli Army
well what about public sentiment in Iran
and in Lebanon
for another War I mean is the public
will there to go to war no of course not
uh we have seen that in Iran for years
now right now ever since 2009 the
Islamic Republic or perhaps even from
the 1990s the Islamic Republic has lost
a lot of its legitimacy it has lost a
lot of popular support same in Lebanon
most Lebanese don't want a war even
those who support his hisbah if they
remember the war of 2006 when the
Israelis destroyed major parts of the
South um that's that I think is part of
the reason that heah and Iran have been
so calm that might be the reason why
Hezbollah General SEC secretary needed
three weeks uh to to hold a first speech
on the conflict uh both sides don't want
this war because they know about their
own weaknesses in Lebanon and Iraq want
to ask you about the um US military
presence um today the the Pentagon
tweeted a a photo of a US submarine in
the Gulf um a submarine that carries
nuclear Warheads or can carry Warheads
very unusual for the Pentagon to do that
we know that the Pentagon has also sent
two aircraft carriers into the
Mediterranean um is that a clear signal
directed exactly at Tyron yes I think so
it's it's it's quite unusual uh to see
these pictures uh online and I think
it's a signal uh the Biden
Administration is extremely worried
about the conflict escalating especially
the conf conflict with hisbah but
possibly also with the Iran Allied
militia in Iraq in Syria and Yemen and
uh possibly also with Iran and I think
that's why that is the reason why we
have seen these not so subtle yeah uh
not so subtle pictures and hints yeah
the submarine you're not supposed to see
there GTO steinber as always G we
appreciate you coming in thank
you well from more this I'm now joined
by yala zabar she's the head of thews
fary services and by Shan rosanes D ww's
Middle East analyst um let's start with
you yalda uh the uh Iran has has vowed
for years to destroy Israel yet we
haven't seen any direct involvement in
that current conflict yet
why you know the Islamic Republic is
very strategic um and they kind of uh
let others do the work as they as long
as they can not you know um not get
involved directly but they are um we
just heard it in the report they are
they have paved the way in the last 40
years actually to support the the um
their proxies to support the Hamas to
support hisbah financially ideologically
and uh military and um so this is uh
they are actually now seeing it also
depends on how hard and how the message
from the other side is um the US made it
actually very clear by sending warships
to the med Mediterranean and now um also
submarines in the region that um if
Lebanon if hisbah uh enters the war we
will hit uh hisbah so they are very
aware of that and I think this message
arrives there as well um and also right
after the uh the the Hamas attacks on
7th October um us said that there is no
uh indications that Iran has been
involved directly and this is also a
message in in in in in a way to say we
don't want to get involved with you in a
war um so you know watch out sh y has
just mentioned the the the proxies that
is uh the hooes in in Yemen and
Hezbollah in in Lebanon how big of of a
threat are those two for Israel's
security well we we've seen them
badgering I mean to the least uh Israel
in the last four weeks um they keep
Israel's Army stretched to its maximum
between the Deep South you know the the
middle southern part of Israel with
Hamas under the north um and also we
know of of shiat militias operating in
Syria which is to the to the southern
border uh eastern border of Israel
that's also and at the same time we've
also seen militias backed by Iran
operating against American forces in
Iraq and this is also something we need
to keep in mind you know yelda was
mentioning the American involvement here
they are on the ground this affects the
Americans very well this is not just
their fear of bigger escalation for the
region this has straight you know
implications for the Americans as well
if this goes out of hand and if Iran
goes more involved deeper into this
conflict Shany Israel's aim is quote to
destroy Hamas how realistic is that if
we're looking at the support it is
getting from uh a big big player like
Iran no doubt that the support the
financial Al we know of equipment and
training that was provided by Iran uh
before the October 7th effect no doubt
it brought Hamas to this very Advanced
position where they managed to to
surprise Israel in such a way uh during
that attack um we also need to keep in
mind destroying Hamas is also destroying
the idea behind Hamas this is almost
impossible will it be possible however
to uproot the leaders of that movement
and its operational um structure in Gaza
Israeli idea of claims it is possible
it's all depending on the costs you know
how much time Israel has and how much
patience that the world have to bear
with the immense cost we see in civilian
lives that is you know this operation is
taking in Gaza yala back to you um
you've touched upon this but how big is
the risk of this turning into an open
confrontation uh between Israel and
Iran you know there are many factors
behind it at the moment given Iran is
trying to avoid uh getting into a war
because they know uh speaking about the
costs um they know that that could also
there there's a high price to it because
Iran is right now domestically weakened
um within the population um they have
basically uh based on surveys only
around 10 to
15% uh support of the Iranian uh
population that we have we have been
witnessing the this ongoing Revolution
the woman life Freedom Movement until
now so they are very you know very hard
on uh cracking down the protesters
inside but they also know that uh now
entering a war and then having the
outside and the the inside Factor um
they are I think not prepared for that
at the moment now Iran yala is also
threatening the West Iran's defense
minister said that quote he would be
quote Iran would be hit hard if
Washington didn't Implement a ceasefire
in Gaza is all this just posturing from
tan or is it raising the stakes
it is actually demonstrating Force I
think and we have to also uh keep in
mind for instance the the the well much
anticipated speech of hisbah leader n
Hassan nasah um some days ago everyone
or his followers uh they they expected
maybe a more uh harsh kind of let's go
we enter this war um tone and it wasn't
and um we canot we know it is clear that
it is this is you know um tan the
Islamic Republic and uh the hisbah
leader all saying that they were
surprised by the Hamas attack and really
these are signs that they are you know
demonstrating Force but they are don't
really want to get involved and there's
also another maybe important issue to
mention that um throughout like these
last 44 years of the Islamic Republic
this Narrative of anti-israel you know
people in school having to chant every
morning death to Israel and death to us
this has changed a lot within the the
population in Iran so what we see now is
basically a huge support for Israel
opposing all the values of of their uh
government of the Islamic Republic sh uh
the US also says uh the a nuclear
missile submarine has arrived in the
region is that a message to Iran
directly brief definitely that was the
first thing that Biden said on the first
day any looking at what's happening
between Hamas and Israel and you know
considering to join in don't that was
exact a quote from Biden uh we've seen
also at the same time you know you were
just mentioning earlier blinkin you know
visit to the Middle East we will if you
look back there's another foreign
minister taking you know uh tours around
the Middle East and that's the the
Iranian one you know he's been to Turkey
he's been to leanan so we are seeing
these two very clear uh parallel
objecting uh alliances formed between
the what the Americans are trying to
build the moderate Alli Alliance which
includes Jordan Egypt Bahrain the Saudi
Arabia and so on and then on the other
hand we've seen you know the the the uh
Iranian foreign minister in Lebanon with
Hamas also Turkey um and and this is
basically why the Americans and the
whole world is watching at this conflict
because there's an understanding this is
much bigger than just the immediate
Israel Hamas conflict a lot a lot of
players at work there that's for sure
Yak head of DW's F service and Shan
rosan is DW's Middle East analyst thank
you both very
much